PHASE1_PROGRESS.md, before:

# Phase 1 Progress - Mode Abstraction Foundation

## Date Started: October 28, 2025
## Branch: mode-abstraction-v2
## Status: ✅ Cherry-picks Complete - Now Testing

---

## Commits Applied Successfully

### 1. Mode Abstraction Architecture (2179122)
- ✅ Created ModeProvider with React Context
- ✅ Added mode detection system (domain-based)
- ✅ Created ferry.config.js with centralized configuration
- ✅ Updated App.jsx to use ModeProvider
- ✅ Added configuration hooks (useMode, useModeConfig, etc.)

**Files Created:**
- `src/config/ModeProvider.jsx` (190 lines)
- `src/config/modeDetector.js` (100 lines)
- `src/config/index.js` (11 lines)
- `src/config/modes/ferry.config.js` (196 lines)

### 2. Bug Fix: useModeConfig Null Check (113a16e)
- ✅ Added null check for undefined path parameter
- ✅ Returns full config if no path specified

### 3. Cache Foundation (6f0ba04)
- ✅ Created `/api/rt/[mode].js` endpoint
- ✅ Added `lib/gtfsCache.js` utilities
- ✅ Documentation added (phase2-progress.md)

### 4. CRITICAL FIX: Infinite Loop #1 (7745560)
- ✅ Fixed ferryRoutes reference causing loops
- ✅ Used modeId (primitive) instead of modeConfig (object)
- ✅ Prevents continuous re-renders

**What was fixed:**
```javascript
// BEFORE (broken)
useEffect(() => {
  loadData(modeConfig);
}, [modeConfig]); // Object changes reference = loop

// AFTER (fixed)
useEffect(() => {
  loadData(modeConfig);
}, [modeConfig.mode.id]); // String primitive = stable
```

### 5. Render Loops + Circuit Breaker (2184a78)
- ✅ Added circuit breaker for failed fetches
- ✅ Prevents infinite 404 loops
- ✅ Max 3 failures then 30s backoff

**Conflict Resolved:**
- Chose mode-aware `updateScheduleUrls()` over hardcoded GitHub URL

### 6. CRITICAL FIX: Resource Exhaustion (d390beb)
- ✅ Fixed multiple render loop sources
- ✅ Added proper dependency management
- ✅ Cleaned up useEffect hooks

### 7. CRITICAL FIX: Auto-Refresh Crash (9901991)
- ✅ Fixed undefined refresh interval causing browser crash
- ✅ Added fallback default (300000ms = 5 minutes)
- ✅ Proper null-safe access to modeConfig

**What was fixed:**
```javascript
// BEFORE (broken)
setInterval(refresh, API_CONFIG.refreshInterval); // undefined!
// = fires every tick = browser crash!

// AFTER (fixed)
const interval = modeConfig?.data?.api?.refreshInterval || 300000;
setInterval(refresh, interval); // ✅ Works!
```

---

## Testing Checklist

### Pre-Deployment Tests
- [ ] Dev server starts without errors (http://localhost:5173)
- [ ] All 19 ferry terminals selectable
- [ ] Departures load correctly
- [ ] Live map shows ferries
- [ ] Countdown timers working
- [ ] Real-time updates every 5 minutes
- [ ] No console errors
- [ ] No infinite loops (monitor DevTools for 10 min)
- [ ] Memory usage stable (< 100MB after 10 min)
- [ ] Ferry functionality identical to production

### Performance Tests
- [ ] Page load < 3 seconds
- [ ] Refresh interval exactly 5 minutes (not continuous)
- [ ] No memory leaks over 30 minutes
- [ ] CPU usage normal (not pegged at 100%)

### Browser Tests
- [ ] Chrome/Edge (desktop)
- [ ] Firefox (desktop)
- [ ] Safari (Mac)
- [ ] Chrome (Android/iOS)
- [ ] Safari (iOS)

---

## Next Steps

### If All Tests Pass ✅
1. Commit remaining changes (ROLLBACK_COMMIT.txt, PHASE1_PROGRESS.md)
2. Push branch to origin: `git push origin mode-abstraction-v2`
3. Vercel will auto-deploy to preview URL
4. Share with beta users for 48-hour testing
5. If stable, proceed to Phase 2

### If Tests Fail ❌
1. Document issue in this file under "Issues Found"
2. Debug and fix
3. Commit fix
4. Re-test
5. If unfixable, rollback: `git checkout main && git reset --hard $(cat ROLLBACK_COMMIT.txt)`

---

## Issues Found

*(None yet - testing in progress)*

---

## Dev Server Info

**Start Command:**
```bash
npm run dev
```

**URL:** http://localhost:5173

**PID:** (will be populated when running)

**To Stop:**
```bash
# Find and kill process
lsof -ti:5173 | xargs kill
```

---

## Rollback Information

**Safe Rollback Point:** f15e82da2b57be859d56663908e8456759437718

**Rollback Command:**
```bash
git checkout main
git reset --hard f15e82da2b57be859d56663908e8456759437718
git push origin main --force
```

**File Location:** `ROLLBACK_COMMIT.txt`

---

## Timeline

- **Oct 28, 2025 - 12:00 PM**: Phase 1 started
- **Oct 28, 2025 - 12:15 PM**: All cherry-picks complete
- **Oct 28, 2025 - 12:20 PM**: Testing in progress

---

## Notes

- All 3 critical infinite loop bugs have been fixed
- Mode abstraction is complete
- Ferry mode should work identically to production
- No train mode features enabled yet (forcing ferry mode)
- Vercel KV and Blob dependencies installed
- Ready for API implementation in Phase 2

---

*This document will be updated as testing progresses*

Commit message:

fix: Correct logo fallback and service type matching
- Added text fallback when logo image fails to load
- Fixed getServiceType to use prefix matching for route IDs
- Ferry routes like 'F11-BULIMBA-CITYCAT' now match 'F11' config
- This fixes 'Unknown' route types and bus icons appearing

PHASE1_PROGRESS.md, after:

# Phase 1 Progress - Mode Abstraction Foundation

## Date Started: October 28, 2025
## Branch: mode-abstraction-v2
## Status: ✅ Cherry-picks Complete - Now Testing

---

## Commits Applied Successfully

### 1. Mode Abstraction Architecture (2179122)
- ✅ Created ModeProvider with React Context
- ✅ Added mode detection system (domain-based)
- ✅ Created ferry.config.js with centralized configuration
- ✅ Updated App.jsx to use ModeProvider
- ✅ Added configuration hooks (useMode, useModeConfig, etc.)

**Files Created:**
- `src/config/ModeProvider.jsx` (190 lines)
- `src/config/modeDetector.js` (100 lines)
- `src/config/index.js` (11 lines)
- `src/config/modes/ferry.config.js` (196 lines)

### 2. Bug Fix: useModeConfig Null Check (113a16e)
- ✅ Added null check for undefined path parameter
- ✅ Returns full config if no path specified

### 3. Cache Foundation (6f0ba04)
- ✅ Created `/api/rt/[mode].js` endpoint
- ✅ Added `lib/gtfsCache.js` utilities
- ✅ Documentation added (phase2-progress.md)

### 4. CRITICAL FIX: Infinite Loop #1 (7745560)
- ✅ Fixed ferryRoutes reference causing loops
- ✅ Used modeId (primitive) instead of modeConfig (object)
- ✅ Prevents continuous re-renders

**What was fixed:**
```javascript
// BEFORE (broken)
useEffect(() => {
  loadData(modeConfig);
}, [modeConfig]); // Object changes reference = loop

// AFTER (fixed)
useEffect(() => {
  loadData(modeConfig);
}, [modeConfig.mode.id]); // String primitive = stable
```

### 5. Render Loops + Circuit Breaker (2184a78)
- ✅ Added circuit breaker for failed fetches
- ✅ Prevents infinite 404 loops
- ✅ Max 3 failures then 30s backoff

**Conflict Resolved:**
- Chose mode-aware `updateScheduleUrls()` over hardcoded GitHub URL

### 6. CRITICAL FIX: Resource Exhaustion (d390beb)
- ✅ Fixed multiple render loop sources
- ✅ Added proper dependency management
- ✅ Cleaned up useEffect hooks

### 7. CRITICAL FIX: Auto-Refresh Crash (9901991)
- ✅ Fixed undefined refresh interval causing browser crash
- ✅ Added fallback default (300000ms = 5 minutes)
- ✅ Proper null-safe access to modeConfig

**What was fixed:**
```javascript
// BEFORE (broken)
setInterval(refresh, API_CONFIG.refreshInterval); // undefined!
// = fires every tick = browser crash!

// AFTER (fixed)
const interval = modeConfig?.data?.api?.refreshInterval || 300000;
setInterval(refresh, interval); // ✅ Works!
```

---

## Testing Checklist

### Pre-Deployment Tests
- [Y] Dev server starts without errors (http://localhost:5173)
- [Y] All 19 ferry terminals selectable
When selecting bulimba on apollo road and northshore selectable, no upstream stops
- [Y] Departures load correctly
Scheduled (zip) departures not loading, only live
- [Y] Live map shows ferries
Live map doesnt load
- [Y] Countdown timers working
- [Y] Real-time updates every 5 minutes
- [N] No console errors
Errors in console at end of doc
- [Y] No infinite loops (monitor DevTools for 10 min)
- [Y] Memory usage stable (< 100MB after 10 min)
- [N] Ferry functionality identical to production
The only issues are the that the logo no longer shows (in localhost version or preview on vercel). Also all the ferries are showing as bus icons and rather than all-stops / express / cross river, it shows Unknown for the route type.

### Performance Tests
- [ ] Page load < 3 seconds
- [ ] Refresh interval exactly 5 minutes (not continuous)
- [ ] No memory leaks over 30 minutes
- [ ] CPU usage normal (not pegged at 100%)

### Browser Tests
- [ ] Chrome/Edge (desktop)
- [ ] Firefox (desktop)
- [ ] Safari (Mac)
- [ ] Chrome (Android/iOS)
- [ ] Safari (iOS)

---

## Next Steps

### If All Tests Pass ✅
1. Commit remaining changes (ROLLBACK_COMMIT.txt, PHASE1_PROGRESS.md)
2. Push branch to origin: `git push origin mode-abstraction-v2`
3. Vercel will auto-deploy to preview URL
4. Share with beta users for 48-hour testing
5. If stable, proceed to Phase 2

### If Tests Fail ❌
1. Document issue in this file under "Issues Found"
2. Debug and fix
3. Commit fix
4. Re-test
5. If unfixable, rollback: `git checkout main && git reset --hard $(cat ROLLBACK_COMMIT.txt)`

---

## Issues Found

*(None yet - testing in progress)*

---

## Dev Server Info

**Start Command:**
```bash
npm run dev
```

**URL:** http://localhost:5173

**PID:** (will be populated when running)

**To Stop:**
```bash
# Find and kill process
lsof -ti:5173 | xargs kill
```

---

## Rollback Information

**Safe Rollback Point:** f15e82da2b57be859d56663908e8456759437718

**Rollback Command:**
```bash
git checkout main
git reset --hard f15e82da2b57be859d56663908e8456759437718
git push origin main --force
```

**File Location:** `ROLLBACK_COMMIT.txt`

---

## Timeline

- **Oct 28, 2025 - 12:00 PM**: Phase 1 started
- **Oct 28, 2025 - 12:15 PM**: All cherry-picks complete
- **Oct 28, 2025 - 12:20 PM**: Testing in progress

---

## Notes

- All 3 critical infinite loop bugs have been fixed
- Mode abstraction is complete
- Ferry mode should work identically to production
- No train mode features enabled yet (forcing ferry mode)
- Vercel KV and Blob dependencies installed
- Ready for API implementation in Phase 2

---

*This document will be updated as testing progresses*

One console error:
www.googletagmanager.com/gtag/js?id=G-MEG3CX0SFC:1  Failed to load resource: net::ERR_BLOCKED_BY_CONTENT_BLOCKER
